Have you configured, deployed, or maintained Linux servers in any of your internships or professional experience? If so, which distributions and in what capacity? Yes, at my AI startup internship, I configured and deployed 3 linux servers, along with a load balancing system through a reverse proxy using a cloud platform software called Envoy. I used this to ensure user data was not lost when a server went down, thus increasing the resiliance of our system. I ran and managed each of these servers within a virtual environment by utilizing docker containers.

Can you describe a situation where you solved a complex technical problem independently on Linux or other systems? One time, I was installing Gentoo Linux in order to accomplish our purposes at the AI startup, and it was a challenging process, but we wanted to install it with manual configuration so that we could have more control and gain knowledge in one of the most powerful, secure Linux distributions. We decided not to go with it, but it's still something they will keep in mind for the future, but I installed it and was able to give my boss a trial run within the week due to my efficient reading through of the documentation, and adaptation of it to our unique circumstances.

Have you done any customer-facing technical support, either remotely or in-person, especially involving Linux or networking issues? I did, I developed an app with my boss, who essentially played the role of a client by being the architect for an editor app he wanted built, so we talked through problems and different ways we could solve it, and we talked through different approaches and he let me loose and we came up with a really great product with a ton of potential.

In your Software Engineering internships, did you manage, deploy, or troubleshoot application servers like Tomcat, JBoss, or similar? I didn't use any of those tools, but the servers we set up did use websockets and other application-level network protocols we had to deal with directly

Have you ever worked with or maintained high-availability environments or critical systems requiring uptime monitoring? I have. The aforementioned computer game we forked from github and made our own version of required a lot of uptime monitoring, so I learned how to do that via the command line. It also helped for troubleshooting issues when my cpu would make lots of sound, and tracking what applications were causing that, and other situations like that.

Can you give examples of leadership or mentorship experience in a technical environment, such as guiding colleagues or interns through processes or troubleshooting? Yeah, I've helped coworkers at my current job fix issues with a variety of computer issues, and my approach has helped a number of people find ways to solve problems like that.

Have you worked with enterprise networking setups, such as LAN/WAN configurations, VLANs, or routing, beyond basic troubleshooting? I've dabbled in that with my CCNA course, but not a ton beyond that.

Have you done any scripting or automation specifically for server maintenance, monitoring, or deployment (beyond lab data workflows)? Yeah, just the server management and load balancing with the previously mentioned envoy reverse proxy using docker containers.

Can you give examples of times you troubleshot and resolved issues with PCs, printers, or other peripherals at your current or past roles? Yes, I had a time when I assembled hardware and put together a PC from scratch for the AI business. Some issues I had to work through included selecting the correct CPU for the job (powerful but still affordable), assembling the fans in the right direction and not losing screws in the process, and inserting each of the various plugs into the correct ports. I also have had printer troubleshooting practice at my current job as a lab technician, as we use high-end Ricoh printers for our work which has powerful printing features.

Have you had hands-on experience configuring or supporting basic networking (routers, switches, Wi-Fi, VPNs, etc.), and if so, what specifically did you do? Yes, I've configured my home Wi-Fi and also played around with network debugging using command line tools (like netcat and curl), as well as apps (like Wireshark). I'm familiar with routers, switches, and VPN's as I've gone through a CCNA course (although haven't yet gone for the certificate since I'm shooting for an AWS one first).

Have you ever used (or assisted with) automated software deployment tools or asset management systems? If so, which ones and how? I've managed and updated an asset management data log in Microsoft Excel, complete with formulas, conditional formatting, and error-checking.

Since the role requires HIPAA/EHR experience: what direct experience have you had working with EHR systems (Epic, Cerner, Allscripts, etc.), and how did you ensure compliance with HIPAA requirements in your work? The complicance I assure at my role as an R&D lab technician, while not directly HIPAA, is very relevant to HIPAA. We use SOP's and GDP's to ensure our lab tests on medical devices comply with FDA regulations, and we are required to complete additional readings on these documents frequently, so I am quite familiar with such regulations and reading through such documents. While I'm not specifically experienced with EHR systems, as we dealt with medical devices and data sheets for tests rather actual medical records, I am very familar with command line tools and automation through scripting, which are invaluable tools when it comes to data retrieval and parsing. I'm also very familiar with AI tools such as ChatGPT, Grok, Copilot, etc, and have made multiple command line tools which integrate with these over the Internet.
When supporting Ricoh printers and PCs in the lab, did you perform hands-on repairs (part replacement, hardware fixes), or was it mostly troubleshooting and escalation? It was mostly troubleshooting and escalation, but I have a high amount of troubleshooting skills and knowledge which range anywhere from software debugging to network troubleshooting.

Can you give me an example of a time you provided direct end-user or customer-facing technical support, either at BD, freelancing, or elsewhere? I helped coworkers navigate complex filesystems on lab testing equipment.

Have you ever had to document service calls, ticket resolutions, or asset changes in real time (similar to help desk systems), and if so, what tools did you use? Not in real-time, but as we went we kept an excel spreadsheet to update changes in medical devices, which I helped manage.

Do you have experience with on-site support tasks (like going to different physical locations, setting up equipment, or moving hardware), or has your support work mostly been remote/lab-based? Mostly in the lab, in-person.

Since this job mentions OEM certifications and basic repair toolkits, do you currently have any repair tools, certifications, or equivalent hands-on training that proves you can service laptops/desktops? I am working towards an AWS cloud certification.

